I am currently employed as a software engineer at Therap BD ltd. Before this, I completed my Bachelors in Computer Science from Bangladesh University of Engineering of Technology (BUET). I was always drawn to the technological feats of the world and wondered how it all comes together. I started to understand these and the mechanics behind the architectures, which made me a devotee of computer science. Thanks to my alma mater, I got the opportunity to learn and grow in a knowledge driven environment.

Long story short, I am always eager to learn something new and if it's related to something I love, that a bonus. By the time when Machine Learning / AI took the world over by a storm, I was already learning how multi layer perceptron works / how early networks worked f.e. AlexNet, RNet etc. After graduation, I wanted to taste the industry of my country and also get to know how a software company functions. Which motivated me to join Therap. Here I learned how to work as a team, the impact of collaboration through discussion while solving a critical problem and then implementing, critiquing etc. I worked on building bleeding edge AI powered systems. For instance, there's a central AI hub that supports a configurable collab friendly knowledge base and then a chat functionality which is used by a lot of my colleagues across tech/nontech divisions. I had contributed in building the system for the knowledge base (Optimistic RAG) along with the chat features which supports memory persistence, long horizon conversations, sandboxing etc. I also continued my research focusing on Small Language Models and how we can make them better. I also helped building a major part of a AI powered trend analysis system that works on actual health data of individuals, in turn helping care takers making constructive decisions. Moreover, apart from my professional expertise, I worked on building a two stage classification system for detecting dengue breeding sites in a densely populated city like Dhaka which is ravaged by dengue pandemic every year. The first stage consists of a custom fine-tuned vision model powered classification and then distance based inductive classification to mimic how a health inspector would classify the nearby regions. Moreover, recently I am working on a diagnostic study on how SLMs use the compounding information in a long horizon task like a multiturn conversation. Lost in the middle, recency bias, depth ceiling etc. are very real for for LLMs and even more true for the smaller models. I am working on finding out whether providing useful cues help in making better decisions where the context is ever growing. Thanks to my collaborators and colleagues for helping me everyday learning something new. 